This directory has two different cases for hydrogen diffusion flames. One for a
counterflow diffusion flame in similarity coordinate, and one for the solution
of the flamelet equations. These are started with two different input files.


Counterflow diffusion flame:

This case is started with

FlameMaster -i H2.count.in

The main result of this simulation is the flamelet file
OutCount/H2_p01_0a00100_0tf0300to0300. The format of the flamelet files is
specified in the last chapter of the 'Reduced Kinetic Mechanisms ... book' by
Peters and Rogg. However, this format cannot be printed easily. The conversion
to a tab separated list can be done with the ListTool program. An alias LT is
already defined. Hence the command

LT OutCount/H2_p01_0a00100_0tf0300to0300

will result in a file OutCount/H2_p01_0a00100_0tf0300to0300.kg, which is a tab
separated text file. ListTool takes more than one file on the command line at
the same time, for instance LT OutCount/H2*300 would convert all matched files.
ListTool can also be used to collect useful data from a series of flamelet
files. For example

LT -r <file.out> <flamelet file list>

creates a file with the maxima of all the vectors appearing in the flamelet
files. The scalar quantities from the header of the file can be retrieved with
the -s <symbolfile> option, where <symbolfile> includes the names of all the
names of quantities that are of interest in one column. A good combination is

LT -s <symbolfile> -r <file.out> <flamelet file list>

(If these options are used, the generation of the tab separated list files is
omitted.) An example for a symbolfile is given in
~/FlameMaster/FlameManRun/Prem/Unstreched/CH4. For more options check LT -h.


With the options

SensAnal is TRUE
SensObj is T
SensObj is OH

in the input file, sensitivity coefficients will be computed for temperature
and OH mass fraction. All other quantities, which are part of the solution,
could be added in the same way. The results are in the output directory.


After running this case once, you could try to restart from the result that was
just produced:

FlameMaster -i H2.count.in -s OutCount/H2_p01_0a00100_0tf0300to0300

You could also run this at a different pressure (specify in bar)

FlameMaster -i H2.count.in -s OutCount/H2_p01_0a00100_0tf0300to0300 -p 1.5

or with the -P option (Parameter) at a different strainrate

FlameMaster -i H2.count.in -s OutCount/H2_p01_0a00100_0tf0300to0300 -P 200

These values can of course also be changed in the input file, however, command
line options overrule the input file.






Flamelet equations in mixture fraction space:

This case is started with

FlameMaster -i H2.mixfrac.in

Note that there is no scalar dissipation rate specified in the input file. In
this case, or if the scalar dissipation rate is negative, the value will be
taken from the startprofiles file.

Similarly here, the job can also be run at different scalar dissipation rate
using the -P option. Rerunning this job with the just produced solution as
start profile

FlameMaster -i H2.mixfrac.in -s OutMixFrac/H2_p01_0chi1.73414tf0300to0300

provides after reading the startprofiles file the message:

#warning: maximum error in mass conservation at gridpoint no. 40: sumYi =
0.953109

showing that the solution has a substantial mass error. The reason is that the
flamelet equations are solved with non-unity Lewis numbers, but without full
transport, the way it is described in Pitsch, Peters, Comb. Flame, 114, pp.
26--40, 1998.

The case can also be run with unity Lewis numbers by uncommenting the line

LewisNumberFile is LewisNumberOne

in the input file. The option specifies a file that specifies Lewis numbers for
the chemical species. For species that don't appear Le = 1 is used. For the
present case, the file LewisNumberOne does not exist, hence all Le are unity.
After running this case once, the solution should not have a mass error
anymore. Running for the second time shows that the warning message does not
appear anymore.

To run a series of scalar dissipation rates or pressures, multiple lines of the
respective entry can be specified in the input file. In case of running such a
series and a convergent solution cannot be found, the solver goes to
intermediate values of these parameters and continues after a convergent
solution can be found.

For running series of parameters, the settings

MaxIter = 25 DeltaNewGrid = 15

have been found to be useful.

A question that is often being asked is how to run a case for a fuel, for which
no startprofiles file is available. Typically, this is done by running a case
for a different fuel and then replace the fuel gradually by the new fuel. This
can be tested here for the transition from H2 to CH4.

First we need a solution with a mechanism that has both fuels, in this case CH4
and H2. This can be achieved by running with the mechanism CH4.72.pre. All the
preprocessed mechanism files are in ~/FlameMaster/FlameManData

FlameMaster -i H2.mixfrac.in -r $myData/CH4.72.pre

Then, in the following computations, H2 is gradually being replaced by CH4 as a
fuel. This can be done automatically by using the following options in the
input file:

ToSpecies is CH4 
FromSpecies is H2 
ContInc = 0.02 
ContSide is right 
ContBound = 1.0

The solution will always be converged and continued with 2 percent more CH4 on
the fuel side. The results will always be saved. The final result will have
only CH4 on the fuel side. Finally an input file for CH4 should be produced by
copying H2.mixfrac.in to a different name and replacing the fuel specific
lines:

fuel is CH4 
MechanismFile is CH4.72.pre
globalReaction is CH4 + 2 O2 == CO2 + 2 H2O;

and

Fuel Side { 
	dirichlet { 
		t = 300.0 
		y->CH4 = 1.0 
	} 
}

The new global reaction will lead to a different stoichiometric mixture
fraction and hence different dissipation rate distribution if chi_st is
specified. The case should be run one more time with the last solution from the
previous run as startprofiles file:

FlameMaster -i CH4.mixfrac.in -s OutMixfrac/H2_p01_0chi1.73414tf0300to0300

The resulting file, OutMixfrac/CH4_p01_0chi1.73414tf0300to0300 can now be used
as input for further methane calculations.